                      PlayStation Tool Manual                         bmp2tim

NAME
        bmp2tim - Converts Windows image data into PlayStation image data files.

DATE
        1996/Jan/25 Version 2.2

FORMAT
        bmp2tim [options] BMP-files ...

DESCRIPTION 
        A Windows3.0 BMPFORMAT image data file is converted to a PlayStation 
        TIM file (*.tim).

        The argument can contain wildcard identifiers. Multiple files can
        be given to perform batch conversions. The ".bmp" extension in the 
        filename can be omitted.
        
        [options]

        -o output-file  Specifies the output filename.  The default is to 
                        use the input filename with the extension ".tim" 
                        and write it to the current directory.

        -org x y        Specify image origin in VRAM.  Default is (0, 0).

        -plt x y        Specify position of color palette in VRAM.
                        Default is (0, 480).
        
        -t              Set transparency control bit ON for colors other than
                        (0 0 0).  Colors other than (0 0 0) become semi-
                        transparent.  The default is for all colors to be
                        non-transparent.  

        -b              Set transparency control bit OFF for (0 0 0).
                        (0 0 0) becomes transparent.  The default is for 
                        (0 0 0) to be displayed as black.

        -v              Display detailed information related to conversion.

Major Changes from Previous Version 2.1

        This version allows to create a no-CLUT TIM from a Windows BMP file.
	To do this, use the "-plt x y" option with a negative x or y:
	for example,

		bmp2tim -plt -1 -1 a.bmp

Major Changes from Version prior to 2.1
        * Now converts correctly even when width is not 4x.
        * Even when an absolute path is provided for an input image file
          (if not explicitly specified with the -o option), a TIM file 
          is created in the current directory.
        * The -mode option was eliminated.  The file is converted to the mode
          closest to the size of the input BMP data pixels.  Please use
          Photoshop or something similar to reduce the number of colors.
        * Changed so that the -t option can set semi-transparency for
          colors other than (0 0 0).
        * The -b option was added.  It is used to select black or transparent
          for (0 0 0).  In the previous version the default for (0 0 0) was
          transparent, but in this version it is displayed as black.  If 
          sprite areas other than characters are to be made transparent, 
          (with PhotoShop or something similar), specify the -b option for
          those areas which are to remain black when converting.

RESTRICTIONS: The current version has the restrictions shown below.  

          * Does not handle BMP compressed format.




