Tmd2pmd.txt PlayStation Tool Manual

NAME tmd2pmd - Converts TMD format modeling data to PMD format.

DATE 1995/Oct/16 Version 1.14

FORMAT
 tmd2pmd [options] TMD-files ...

DESCRIPTION 
A TMD-format file (*.tmd) is converted to a PMD file (*.pmd). TMD is the PlayStation 3D modelling 
data format, and PMD is the high-speed version of the modelling data format.
The argument can contain wildcard identifiers. Multiple files can be given to perform batchconversions. 
In this case, each file is converted to the same file name with a .pmd extension and is created in the 
current directory.

[options]
-o output-file Specifies the output filename. The default is to use the input filename with the extension 
".pmd" and write it to the current directory. This option can only be used if there is a single input file. 
When two or more files are specified using a wildcard, this option will cause an error.

-h Displays a list of selectable options and simple usage instructions.

-v Displays detailed information related to conversion.

-s Puts the vertex data in the created PMD file in shared vertex mode.

+s Puts the vertex data in the created PMD file in independent mode (default).

-l Turns ON the light source calculation flag in the created PMD file.

+l Turns OFF the light source calculation flag in the created PMD file (default).

-b Turns ON the Back clip flag in the created PMD file (default).

+b Turns OFF the Back clip flag in the created PMD file.

-notge Turns TGE flag OFF for all packets in the created PMD file.

+notge TGE flag in packets in the created PMD file are copied from those in the input TMD file (default).

NOTES In the TMD file, texture polygons with light source calculation do not include color information. 
tmd2pmd sets this sort of data as a brightness of 0x80 together with R, G, B when it creates the PMD file.
 

Release history:

Ver 1.10 Changes
Fixed a bug in which the ABE and TGE bits in the TMD packet were not reflected in the output PMD.

Ver 1.11 Changes
Added an option (-notge) so that the TGE bit in a TMD packet is ignored and the TGE bit in the output 
PMD is forcibly set to 0.

Ver 1.13 Changes
Changed so that the directory which creates working files can be specified by the TMP environmental 
variable.
Fixed a bug in which some types of polygons did not have correct vertex colors in the created PMD file.

Ver 1.14 Changes
Fixed a bug in which TMD files containing only gradation polygons were not converted correctly.
 

